.DT
Tactics
$MUDNAME$ Player Help
Tactics

.SH Name
.SI 5
tactics - the options of combat
.EI

.SH Syntax
.SI 5
tactics
tactics attitude offensive|neutral|defensive
tactics response dodge|neutral|parry
tactics parry left|right|both [hand(s)]
tactics parry unarmed
.EI

.SH Description
.SP 5 5
There are a number of combat options that you can set to determine your
tactics in a fight - you can change these settings at any time, even
during the middle of a fight, to change your tactics.  The first option
is your attitude: you can be on the offensive (in which case you get a
bonus to attacking, but a penalty to dodging and parrying), or on the
defensive (in which case you get a bonus to dodging and parrying, but a
penalty to attacking) or you can take a neutral attitude (in which case
there are no bonuses or penalties).  In dealing with an attack, you can
choose your response: you can always dodge (dodging receives a bonus,
but you won't attempt to parry) or you can always parry (parrying
receives a bonus, but you won't attempt to dodge) or you can be neutral
in your response (both dodging and parrying are used and there is no
bonus to either).  For parrying, you can choose whether to always parry
with the weapon, or shield, in your left or right hand or always attempt
to use the weapons, or weapon and shield, in both hands.
If you are fighting unarmed, you can choose to attempt to parry with your
arm or hand (this special manoeuvre can be disabling if you are not
skillful enough, but would prevent an attack from reaching your more
vital areas).
It is important to realise that for best results, the tactics that you
choose should depend on your armoury, your opponents and the armouries
of your opponents - no two fights will ever be quite the same.
.EP

Examples
.SI 5
> tactics
Your combat options are:

   Attitude - offensive.
   Response - neutral.

You will use both hands to parry.
You will not attempt to parry unarmed.

> tactics attitude defensive
Your attitude is now defensive.
> tactics response neutral
Your response is now neutral.
> tactics parry left
You will now use your left hand to parry.
.EI

Character Profiles
.SP 5 5
Trish the Thief wears typical thiefy clothing, but carries around
rather a lot of the hardware typical to the trade.  After a successful
job, she wields a rapier and a dagger and attempts to make good her
escape from the scene.  Since she is mostly interested in getting
away, she sets her combat attitude to defensive; given the weight of the
tools that she carries, she sets her combat response to parry and
chooses to always parry with the dagger in her left hand in order to
protect her more delicate rapier.
.EP

.SP 5 5
Birzig the Barbarian wears the standard leather garment, a cloak made
from the wool of Hublandish sheep and a pair of fur-lined boots.  He
carries little beyond a small satchel and his trusty bastard sword.
Since his goal is to defeat his enemies, he sets his combat attitude to
offensive and his response to neutral, since given the little he carries he
can either dodge or parry with his bastard sword.
.EP

.SH See also
.SP 5 5
consider, fighting, options
.EP
