.DT
REQS
Divided Sky Creator Concepts Help
REQS

.SH Requirements for New Immortals
.SP 5 5
The Learning domain allows newly promoted immortals the opportunity
to learn the basic coding skills necessary to become productive members
of the coding team. To ensure that new coders have these necessary
skills, each member of Learning must complete certain guidelines
before "graduating" from the domain and working on further projects.

The _minimum_ requirements are:

A)  Two (2) rooms, one indoor and one outdoor room, complete with
the following: A long description of at least four lines and
an add_item for each noun in the long description and also an
add_item for each noun mentioned in the previous add_items. (Your
workroom, even if rewritten may not be counted as one of
these rooms.)

B)  One (1) armour object with a proper description.

C)  One (1) weapon object with a proper description.

D)  One (1) clothing object with a proper description.

E)  One (1) NPC (non-player character) with at least one
add_respond_to_with() function.

F)  One (1) add_command.  (This may be included in one
of the items listed in A through D, or it may be a separate item,
room, etc.)

G)  A basic understanding of Immortal functions, including the use
of calls and the ed editor.

All submitted requirements must contain sufficient descriptions, adhere
to the theme of the mud, and be suitable for use by the general player
population. Additionally, the requirements should follow the accepted
standards for format and style of coding.

Keep in mind that the list above represents the minimum.  REQS
may be expanded later for inclusion in the mud and count towards
the next promotion, if they meet the expected standards.

REQS should be completed within a month of joining the Learning domain,
unless there are extenuating circumstances.  Extensions should be
requested in writing to the Lord of Learning, with a cc to admin.

Finally, always feel free to ask questions. No one was born knowing how
to code this stuff. :)
.EP
