.DT
Liaisons
$MUDNAME$ concepts
Liaisons

.SH Name
.SI 5
Liaisons - those who are here to help things run more smoothly
.EI

.SH Description
.SP 5 5
Liaisons are an important link between players and creators.  They take
suggestions, questions, comments and complaints from players and pass
them on to those creators who can best deal with the issues raised.  They
also help players get started with the game if needs be, answer questions
on general topics and direct players to help files and, of course, replace
items of inventory that are lost from time to time.

Liaisons are regular
creators, although the emphasis is obviously on interacting with players
as the creators' representatives, and vice-versa, rather than on coding.
Just like other creators, Liaisons are not permitted to use their creator
character to play the game or interact with players except in their role
as Liaisons.  Since they are first and foremost Liaisons, they are expected
to be always available, when they are logged on, to help players, answer
questions and replace inventory, taking the weight of such activities off
the shoulders of other creators.  Obviously the rules that go for all
creators, like not giving out items and xp for free or giving away quest
information, go for Liaisons too, especially as they have a more obvious
presence from the point of view of players.

While it is important for a Liaison to be aware of current playing
conditions, this awareness ought primarily to arise from discussions with
players rather than from first-hand experience: while actually playing
the game is a good way to see it from the player's point of view, it is
a slow way, since the same amount of time could be spent polling a number
of players' opinions.  Quite apart from the fact that, as will be seen
below, a Liaison's duties are considerable, Liaisons are also the visible
side of the creating part of the mud --- in fact, non-Liaison creators
are quite entitled to do their best to hide from players --- and so, much
of a player's impressions of creators, including how hard they work, will
come from Liaisons.
 As for all creators,
it is important that the domain Lord be told if the Liaison is planning to
be absent for an extended period, both so that the Liaison's duties can be
covered by others, if necessary, and also so that the Liaison is not
dismissed for having disappeared!
.EP

.SH Liaising for a Domain
.SP 5 5
One of the biggest problems a domain Lord faces is getting
players to apply to be creators and then keeping those creators enthused
and working.  As the representative for a particular domain, then, the
Liaison is expected to work with the domain Lord to promote and advertise
the domain in order to attract players to it and encourage them to become
creators.  The Liaison should then keep in contact with each and every
creator in that domain to keep up to date with what they are working on,
so that those projects can be advertised to players, to, again, advertise
the domain to potential future creators as well as simply give everyone an
idea of what's being done, as well as trying to keep the creators interested
and enthusiastic about their projects by acting as a sounding board for
ideas.
.EP

.SH General Duties
.SP 5 5
Each Liaison is expected to spend a certain amount of time simply getting
to know players and talking to them about their general opinions of the
mud.  Many people have valid complaints, ideas or comments to make, but for
some reason they do not post them to boards or leave them as bug reports.
It is up to Liaisons to get people to open up and share their thoughts,
either so that they post or report them themselves or so that they tell
Liaisons who can then pass them on.  Related to this is the fact that it
helps domain Lords, mudlib coders and other creators
who are less easily pigeonholed if Liaisons can compile opinions and
condense comments before passing them on: these people are already busy
with their coding projects and administrative duties and do not generally
have the time themselves to sort through a lot of text to work out the
overall message.  Since Liaisons are expected to be up to date on current
opinion and recent developments and plans, it is of paramount importance
that Liaisons read the boards for all of the domains, as well
as the creator boards and the more important player boards.
.EP

.SH Final Points
.SP 5 5
All of the above sounds like a lot of work, and it is.  Being a Liaison
creator requires a considerable amount of dedication to the mud and effort
on its behalf and it's not something that everyone can do, much as they
might like and be good at "helping people".  In fact, the larger part
of being a Liaison is not about "helping people", at least not in the
obvious and immediate sense of the phrase.  A better phrase to represent
what a Liaison does is probably "helping the mud", since as well as
assisting players generally, a Liaison also advertises the plans
and projects of a domain, both to enroll new creators and bolster the
work of existing creators, and acts as a conduit for information to
pass between players, creators and Lords.  All of these together are the
duties of a Liaison and they are all vital to the health and prosperity
of $MUDNAME$.
.EP
