.DT
parser
$MUDNAME$ Player Help
parser

.SH Name
.SI 5
parser - the $MUDNAME$ (Discworld) object parser
.EI

.SH Description
.SP 5 5
The $MUDNAME$ object parser is a sophisticated parser designed to be as
easy as possible to use.  It matches multiple objects based on their
plurals and non-plurals.

It will always try and match exactly, so if you have an object you
want to match called a 'blue frog' if you type in 'look at frog' it
will match correctly, however if you type 'look at frog blue' it will not
match.  'look at blue frog' would also match.

If there are multiple of the same type of object around you can specify
which object you wish to identify exactly in one of two ways.  You can
put a number after the words you match, or the ordinal in front of the
words to match.  For example 'blue frog 1' or '3rd blue frog'.

If you wish to match multiple of the same type of object you can specify
how many you wish to match by putting the number in front of the words
you wish to match on.  For example '1 blue frog', 'twenty blue frogs'.

You can match on things inside your inventory and in the containers in
the room.  You can do this using the 'in' keyword, for example
'look at beer in bottle'.

You can chain together series of things to match in two ways, if you
use the joining "," then both sides must match for a match to be returned.
For example 'look at frog,womble' would work if there was both a frog and
a womble in the environment.  It would not work if there was a frog but
no womble or vica versa.   The other method of matching does not care if
either side match and you can do that with an '&'.  For example
'frog & womble' would match if there was a frog, a womble or both in
the environment.

Other methods of specifying exactly which object you wish to reference
can be done with some special keywords.  If you use the word 'here' after
the name of something, it will only match things in the room.  If you
use the word 'my' in front of a matchable string it will only match
things in your inventory.  If you use the word 'his' or 'her' before
a matching string then it will match inside the previous living match.

The mud keeps track of the last things you referenced and you can
rereference them with the 'it',
'them', 'him', 'her' keywords.  The keywords must match up to the type
of thing you are referencing.

You can control the behaviour of the too many object matching using
the option 'input ambiguous'.
.EP

.SH Examples
.SI 5
> look at quill,frog
> look at quill&frog
> look at bottle in bucket
> look at blue frog
> look at 2nd red towel
> look at 20 gold coins
> look at cupcake here
> look at my badge
> look at her badge
> look at his jacket
> look at it
> get them
> options input ambiguous = off
.EI

.SH See also
.SP 5 5
locate, options
.EP 5
