.DT
Playtesters
$MUDNAME$ Concepts
Playtesters

Name
.SI 5
Playtesters - players who test new areas and seek out bugs for creators
.EI

Description
.SP 5 5
Playtesters possess a very important role on $MUDNAME$.  They are
experienced players who show an active interest in seeking out and
reporting bugs for all sorts of things in the game, in particular
new things, whether they be quests, objects, commands or areas of
Divided Sky.  Playtesters are vital to the existence of Divided Sky's
high standards of quality because they provide creators with
valuable feedback on their coding projects before they are made
generally available.
.EP


Expectations
.SP 5 5
Once a player has been awarded a playtester's badge, he or she will
be expected to make use of it to visit the locations to which it
permits transportation.  These locations provide access to areas
under testing or development, and playtesters are expected to
scrutinise such areas in detail and make bug reports concerning
their findings.  Having access to these areas is not simply an
invitation to go around killing NPCs for experience!  Please note
that the badge's gateway locations are changed from time to time
as areas go in and out of testing, although usually posts are made
informing playtesters of the changes.  Playtesters are also expected
to be more assiduous than most when it comes to reporting bugs even
in existing areas that are open to all players: all playtesters
are required to submit a couple of bug reports for every few hours
spent playing, with a review every month to check that they're
earning their badges.  The requirement isn't very great, and a
month's notice is given if someone is falling behind to give the
opportunity to catch up, but possessing a badge is a privilege,
not a right, so these requirements must be met for continued
playtester status.
.EP

Summary
.SP 5 5
Playtesting can be a very rewarding and enjoyable experience.  It
can also be an excellent way to "give something back" to $MUDNAME$ for
players who enjoy playing and would like to share positive feedback with
creators and Lords.  It holds the added benefit of being allowed to
explore new areas of the game before they are introduced to the everyone
else.
.EP

See also
.SP 5 5
bug, creators, liaisons
.EP
