.DT
stats
$MUDNAME$ concepts help
stats

.SH Description
.SP 5 5
When it comes to applying your knowledge, in the form of your levels
in the various skills, it is very often the case that your bonus in
a skill is used, rather than your level.  The bonus provides a much
more relevant measure of how good you are at something, since it takes
into account your natural ability in the form of your stats.  There
are five stats, which you may view at any time with "score stats",
and they are constitution, dexterity, intelligence, strength and
wisdom.  Your array of stats forms what mages term your anima,
as opposed to your skills which form your animus.
.EP

.SH Constitution
.SP 5 5
Your constitution is a measure of how healthy you are, and is
frequently used to determine whether you succumb to disease or
poison.  Unlike the other stats, it has a limited effect on
your skill bonuses, only really determining your bonus in
"general.health" and hence the number of hit points you have.
.EP

.SH Dexterity
.SP 5 5
Your dexterity determines how agile and graceful you are.  It
will be used to determine how many objects you can successful
carry in your inventory, find out how you land from a fall and
is used in the determination of the bonus for many skills.
"fighting.combat.dodging", "magic.methods.physical" and, of course,
many of the "covert" skills - a good dexterity is a must for any
decent thief.
.EP

.SH Intelligence
.SP 5 5
Your intelligence reflects how bright you are and determines how
able you are at figuring things out for yourself.  It is the most
important stat for bonuses in "magic", so it is very important
for mages, but it also plays a part in "covert.casing",
"faith.items" and a number of the more mental "general" skills,
including "general.valuing" and "general.evaluating".
.EP

.SH Strength
.SP 5 5
Your strength is a measure of your physical power and build.  Its
most obvious role is in determining how much you are able to carry.  A
fighter will need a good strength as it is the main stat used for
calculating "fighting" bonuses, with dexterity not far behind, and is
also used for "crafts.smithing.black" and the more physical "other"
skills.
.EP

.SH Wisdom
.SP 5 5
Your wisdom is a reflection of the power of your intuition and common
sense.  It is by far the most important stat for clerics, in that
it determines bonuses in "faith", and is also used for
"magic.methods.mental" and a number of the more mental "general" skills,
including "general.perception".
.EP

.SH Setting Stats
.SP 5 5
All of your stats start out at 8.  Once you have chosen how you want
to play, you will probably want to make use of "rearrange" to set your
stats appropriately for that choice.  Once used, you lose the command,
so make sure you do it right as you only get one chance.

You do not need to rearrange your stats very early on in the game, spend
some time playing with your character getting the feel of how things
work and talking to other members of your guild before you make a decision
about how you wish to set you stats with the rearrange command.
.EP

.SH Changing Stats
.SP 5 5
There are various ways to modify your stats.  The most common way is
to change them temporarily, for instance, a ritual or potion might give
you more points in one or more stats for a short time.  Another way is
through magic items which change your stats indefinitely, although there
will always be a price to pay for the change and as soon as you can no
longer pay the price, your stats will revert.  Just as there are ways to
improve your stats, there will be things that reduce them; contracting
a disease might reduce your strength, while wearing awkward clothing
or heavy armour might lower your dexterity.

Somes particularly difficult quests may allow you to change
your stats permanently
- there may even be a quest that lets you rearrange your stats a
second time.  Should you ever be unfortunate enough to meet Death, all
of your stats will be temporarily lowered, although there are ways to be
restored more quickly than by simply waiting.
.EP

.SH See also
.SP 5 5
skills, score, rearrange, taskmaster.
.EP
