.DT
blackjack rules
$MUDNAME$ Player Help
blackjack rules

.SH Name
.SI 5
blackjack rules - the rules according to which blackjack is played
.EI

.SH General
.SP 5 5
The standard blackjack deck contains actually 6 decks of 52 cards each.
Each deck has four types of cards: Hearts, Clubs, Diamonds and Spades.

Each type has thirteen different cards, nine number cards (from 2 to 10),
three face cards (Jack, Queen and King), and one ace.

In blackjack the number cards are valued at exactly what their number says,
each of the face cards are valued at ten points and the ace can be either
one or ten points, depending on which is better for the player.

The idea is to get the sum of your cards as close to 21 as possible,
but not over it.

You can also get a blackjack with your first two cards if you get a card
valued at ten points, and an ace.  Unless the dealer gets a blackjack
at the same time, this is always a certain win, and it pays better than
winning with points.

After you get your first two cards, it is possible to double or split your
game if certain conditions are met.  Please refer to the "Special Occasions"
section for more information.
.EP

.SH The Game
.SP 5 5
The game starts with the dealer dealing one card to each of the players,
then one card to himself and finally one card again to each of the players.

At this point, you will have two cards.  Let us assume you get a seven of
spades and a five of hearts - it would sum up to 12.  You should now take
more cards to try and get as close to 21 as possible, keeping in mind
however, that if you go over it, you will lose your bet.

Once you're happy with your hand, you can type 'stand' and the next player's
turn is up.

Once all the player have done the same, it is time for the dealer to take more
cards.

The following are the rules concerning when the dealer can take more cards.
If the dealer's cards are valued below 16, he has to take more cards until
his hand is valued over 16.  However if the value is over 16 and he has an ace
in the hand, he can't stand yet.  The value has to go over 16 while counting
aces' value as 1.  There is one exception to this, and that is blackjack.
If the dealer gets a blackjack, he has to stand.  Also remember that the
dealer will always win if his hand is equal in value with yours.
.EP

.SH Special Occasions

.SP 5 5
Doubling and splitting your hand:
.EP
.SP 10 10
You can double your starting hand and only your starting hand if the value of
it is between 9 and 11.  Doubling will mean that you will have to have enough
money to double your original bet.  If you do, you will receive only one more
card and the turn will be given to the next player.

You can split your starting hand if the values of the two cards in it are equal,
ie. if you have two face cards you can split your hand.  When splitting, you
will also need to have enough cash to double the bet.  Then your hand will be
split and you can play them separately.  So, with two face cards, say a jack
and a king, you will have two hands, first hand will have the jack and the
second will have the king.  Then you can take cards or stand after you're
finished with the first hand and move to the second and do the same with that.
.EP

.SP 5 5
Blackjack:
.EP
.SP 10 10
If you get a face card or a ten AND an ace in your starting hand, that is
called a 'blackjack'.  If the dealer doesn't have an ace or a card valued 10 as
his starting card, you will get your winnings immediately, however, if he does
have one of those cards, you will have to wait until the dealer has finished
taking his cards, for he might get a blackjack too.
.EP

.SP 5 5
Settling the game:
.EP
.SP 10 10
After all the players have got their cards and the dealer has got his,
it is time to check who wins and who loses.  If the dealer has equal or
better cards compared to you, you will lose your bet.  If you have
better cards, you will win.  A normal winning with points will pay 1:1,
so if you bet one electrum coin, you will receive one plus the original
bet if you win.  A blackjack however, pays 3:2, so if you have bet 10 copper
coins, you will receive 15 plus the original 10 copper coins.
Note - If the dealer busts himself, ie. goes over 21, all the players who
haven't busted themselves will win, no matter how low their cards are.
.EP

.SP 5 5
Summary:
.EP
.SP 10 10
This rules file is most likely not very accurate, so if you're the ultimate
guru of blackjack and notice that something is wrong, by all means, please mail
Avelan and tell him where he's buggered up :)
.EP

.SH See also
.SP 5 5
blackjack table
.EP
