Congratulations! You have bribed/maimed/begged/murdered/applied and
entered the Divided-Sky creatorship, well done on pulling a fast one
on the Admin :o), now though you have probably just read your new
introduction mail, and have been pointed in the direction of this FAQ
for new creators, so read, learn, and run around bouncing off things
in a suitably mad manner!

Question #1. EEEK! TOO MANY NEW THINGS, RUN AWAY!

Don't panic! It tends to hurt those poor brain cells.

Question #2. What are these creators reqs that I have to do?

The creator reqs are a list of seven or eight things that you need to code to
become a full creator. Once you have finished coding them and they are APPROVED
by the Lord/s of Learning, they will remove you from Learning and you'll be made
into a full creator, ready to work upon a project.

Question #3. Where are the creator reqs?

They're in their own help file. Type: help reqs

Question #4. Who is the Leader of Learning that I have to show my reqs to?

At the current time there is but one Lord of Learning, and is called Armando, 
he's often on the mud, you can't miss him.

Question #5. What do I do when I'm done with my reqs?

Send a mail to the Lord/s of learning, and be very nice when you ask
them to look over your nice and shiny completed set of reqs.

Question #5a. How long do I have to complete my reqs?

Unless there are special circumstances, no more than 30 days. If you
require longer, send a mail to the leaders of Learning and they'll talk to
you about an extension. You will most likely be dismissed if you don't complete
them in 30 days and haven't provided a reason.

Question #6. Who's in charge here?

There are currently two Admins behind (and in front of, and on top of) the
scenes here at Divided Sky. Their names are Shaydz and Zrutu.
Use 'finger <person name>' to get more information about each of them. Be extra
nice to them, or they'll...well...just be nice.

Question #7. How do I edit/create files, like the ones I have to do for my reqs?

There are several methods, listed below.

1. Use our in-game editor, 'ed'. This is probably the hardest (but most
convenient) way to edit files. Try 'help ed' to learn more about it, but I'd
advise the use of one of the other two ways until you try to become proficient
in ed (or like me, avoid ed like the plague, nah it's really useful when you
get used to it).

2. There is an editor on our website (help website) in the secure web pages.
Just type in the filename, and you'll be able to edit the file.

3. FTP: Please examine help ftp for more info on this one.

Question #8. But I don't know how to code!

We try to have help pages for every possible thing, and that includes creator
functions and room types. If, after looking, you don't find a helpfile for a
certain topic, write a post on the helpfiles board and (nicely) request that
someone writes a helpfile for the topic, functions, file types, and examples.
If you can't find a help page on it, scream at the nearest person to get it
done for you, in particular people in the Library domain who are there for
that purpose.

It's also recommended to visit the LPC School. To get there, type 'wizz' to
travel to the creator commons. From there, take the mud school exit to start
learning, please also remember that the mud school is for new and old cre's
alike, there are skills taught there for all.

Question #9. Where am I supposed to put all the files that I code for my reqs?

Every creator gets their own directory, which can be found in the /w/ directory.

Your personal directory is inside this /w/ directory, specifically at
/w/yourname/. For example, Liceas' directory is at /w/liceas/.
Shaydz's directory, for example, is found at /w/shaydz/

Remember to put armour files in /w/yourname/armour/,
weapon files in /w/yourname/weapons/, and so on.

Question #10. Where am I supposed to be? Don't I get a place of my own?

Absolutely. When you're promoted and your directory (see above) is created, you
get a premade workroom put in it. It's found at /w/yourname/workroom.c . You may
or may not find it a boring room, so you have every right to change the
description, the exits, or even make yourself a multi-room workroom complex. See
above to learn how to create files.

Question #11. But my question isn't in this file...

Remember, the best source of help is not from a help file, but from a fellow
creator who can sit down with you and help you learn to code. If there's nobody
who can help you, send one of us seniors, creators or admin a mail and we'll be
sure to write you right back.

Always remember the bottom line: Relax, nobody was born knowing how to code
this stuff.
